docs:#600two stage bootstrap (#700)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/cluster-administration/node-property-configuration.mdx

    <meta name="description" content="Node configuration properties using redpanda.yaml file."/>
</head>

When you install Redpanda, a `redpanda.yaml` file is installed on each node in `/etc/redpanda`. This file contains node configuration properties. A node property is one that can be set differently from node to node, such as `data_directory` or `node_id` (when specified).

See [Node Configuration Properties](../../reference/node-properties) for a list of node properties, their descriptions, and their default values.

The default `redpanda.yaml` file groups node properties into categories:

- `pandaproxy` - properties for the Redpanda HTTP Proxy
- `redpanda` - runtime configuration properties, such as the cluster member IP addresses and the data directory
- `rpk` - properties that determine how `rpk` starts Redpanda
- `schema registry` - properties related to storage, retrieval, and compatibility of the schemas

> To see a sample template that includes all node properties as they appear in the default `redpanda.yaml` file, see [Node Configuration Template](../../reference/node-configuration-sample). This template is annotated with descriptions of each property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view a sample template that includes all node properties as they appear in the default `redpanda.yaml` file, see [Node Configuration Template](../../reference/node-configuration-sample). This template is annotated with descriptions of each property.
```

## Set node configuration properties

> The `redpanda.yaml` file rarely needs to be edited after the system is installed. However, you can change the value of any node configuration property, except for the unique node identifier: `node_id`. You can altogether omit `node_id` from `redpanda.yaml` and have Redpanda assign it automatically. 

Reviewer: Again--would be nice to mention/list contexts in which users would need to edit their configs.

Author: @Feediver1 I don't think this is what you're talking about (I think more info or recommendations about tunable properties or topic properties is beyond the scope of this PR), but I did rephrase this in a way I think is better: 

The redpanda.yaml file rarely needs to be edited after the system is installed, but you can choose to change node configuration property values.

CAUTION
The one node configuration property you cannot change is the unique node identifier: node_id. After a node joins the cluster, do not change the node_id. You can altogether omit node_id from redpanda.yaml and have Redpanda assign it automatically. For more information, see [Configure node IDs](http://localhost:3000/docs/deployment/custom-deployment/#configure-node-ids).

    <meta name="description" content="Node configuration properties using redpanda.yaml file."/>
</head>

> When you install Redpanda, a `redpanda.yaml` file is installed on each node in `/etc/redpanda`. This file contains node configuration properties. A node property is one that is always different for each node, such as the `node_id`, or one that can be set differently from node to node.

Author: fixed

See [Node Configuration Properties](../../reference/node-properties) for a list of node properties, their descriptions, and their default values.

In the default `redpanda.yaml` file, you see that node properties are grouped into categories:

- `pandaproxy` - properties for the Redpanda HTTP Proxy
- `redpanda` - runtime configuration properties, such as the cluster member IP addresses, the node_id, and the data directory
- `rpk` - properties that determine how `rpk` starts Redpanda
- `schema registry` - properties related to storage, retrieval, and compatibility of the schemas

To see a sample template that includes all node properties as they appear in the default `redpanda.yaml` file, see [Node Configuration Template](../../reference/node-configuration-sample). This template is annotated with descriptions of each property.

## Set node configuration properties

The `redpanda.yaml` file rarely needs to be edited after the system is installed. However, you can change the value of any node configuration property, except for the unique node identifier: `node_id`. 

> The `node_id` property can be omitted from `redpanda.yaml` altogether to have Redpanda assign it automatically. However, if the `node_id` value was specified at the time of initial node setup, it must never be changed. For the same reason, you cannot specify `node_id` on a node that didn't have that property from the beginning.

Reviewer 2: > Not sure it's worth mentioning though.

I thought the same but there are just 9 words that can fix that: `, unless it matches the node ID assigned by Redpanda.`

> The `node_id` property can be omitted from `redpanda.yaml` altogether to have Redpanda assign it automatically. However, if the `node_id` value was specified at the time of initial node setup, it must never be changed. For the same reason, you cannot specify `node_id` on a node that didn't have that property from the beginning.

Author: fixed

> You can altogether omit `node_id` from `redpanda.yaml` and have Redpanda assign it automatically. However, if the `node_id` value was specified at the time of initial node setup, it must never be changed. Similarly, you cannot specify `node_id` on a node that didn't have this property from the beginning, unless it matches the node ID assigned by Redpanda.

Reviewer 3: Remove "However," since it isn't referring to the omission of `node_id` mentioned in the previous sentence.

The `redpanda.yaml` file rarely needs to be edited after the system is installed. However, you can change the value of any node configuration property, except for the unique node identifier: `node_id`. 

> The `node_id` property can be omitted from `redpanda.yaml` altogether to have Redpanda assign it automatically. However, if the `node_id` value was specified at the time of initial node setup, it must never be changed. Similarly, you cannot specify `node_id` on a node that didn't have that property from the beginning, unless it matches the node ID assigned by Redpanda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can altogether omit the `node_id` property from `redpanda.yaml` and have Redpanda assign it automatically. However, if the `node_id` value was specified at the time of initial node setup, it must never be changed. Similarly, you cannot specify `node_id` on a node that didn't have this property from the beginning, unless it matches the node ID assigned by Redpanda.
```
